Title: Fae-Tal Postmortem
Date: 2015-06-12 11:39

I was tasked with the Lead Programmer role for our group game production. The design was for an arena battler with asynchronous gameplay between two 'races.' Our team consisted of 8 artists and 5 programmers. While I wasn't the most talented programmer on the team, the fact that I was present every day and easy to talk to were likely part of the reason I was asked to fill that role. A large part of the work load consisted of setting up and maintaining our source control and asset delivery, which was happening concurrently with the beginning of production. One great success of the project was that two people - the Technical Director and I - were able to learn how to use Perforce and get it set up and running for our two teams' productions in a relatively short time-frame. Another success was accomplishing networked gameplay despite using beta-level middleware and having virtually no prior networking experience thanks to the research and wizardry undertaken by Elizabeth. Though networking was an accomplishment for us, it was also our largest burden during production. Almost every feature was then more difficult to implement, and simply running a build involved switching scenes, starting up a server and instantiating all the objects in the networked context, so that incrementally added significant time cost to most tasks. Looking back, it seems like we could have done more had we opted for developing AI instead of networking. We probably could have implemented rudimentary AI and focused our efforts on gameplay without the networking overhead. We could have then attempted to add more functionality to the AI if we had the time. I feel partially responsible for how that turned out, and I think I could have been more assertive about expressing my concerns and uncertainties with our technical choices. Improvements can be made by more thoroughly researching and comparing technological costs as well as getting all taem members' opinions and ideas integrated into the decision making. I don't mean design-by-committee, I'm thinking more of getting the most data possible by leveraging everyone's brains, then integrating those into a more cohesive or decisive direction. Another improvement I could make as a lead is to be more assertive and proactive with deadline and task management. An easy-going nature can be a strength for a lead, though the challenge for me is being too easy going when a situation could use a bit more heat application.